so actually a granular material it
really depends on what kind of face
you're talking about so imagine taking
some sand in your hands and if you pour
it out of your hands it will just flow
as a fluid if it falls in the table it
forms a heap and that's more like a
solids and then if you throw it in the
air it flies away like a gas so it
really depends on the boundary
conditions and the conditions that
you're looking at the material so I
brought today a little prop this is an
casted imprint of an experiment we did
in the laboratory so we are looking at
granular materials that are different
both in size and shape and if you mix
the death and release it on an incline
it forms an avalanche because of
segregation the largest particles rice
and go to the front those large
particles are also the angular particles
so they crave more friction with the
bottom so they they slow down they stop
and the smaller Rhett's particles in
this case push through and from fingers
and that's the granular fingering
instability you can demonstrate
segregation at home if you take a jar of
sand and you put a marble inside it and
then you shake it then you can see that
the marble rises to the top it's also
appears in breakfast cereal so if you
have a bag of muesli then when you start
when you start it at the start of the
week you have all the nice Brazil nuts
at the top and by the end of the week
you get to the bottom and you have all
the horrible dusty bits and a possum so
that's why it's also known sometimes
that's the Brazil nut effect
you